abbreviation

s of metric nomenclature used in the sciences Stanford Stanford University
Sun Sun Microsystems TMRC Some MITisms go back as far as the Tech Model
Railroad Club (TMRC) at MIT c. 1960. Material marked TMRC is from An
Abridged Dictionary of the TMRC Language , originally compiled by Pete
Samson in 1959 UCLA University of California, Los Angeles UK the United
Kingdom (England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland) Usenet See the Usenet
entry WPI Worcester Polytechnic Institute, site of a very active community
of PDP-10 hackers during the 1970s WWW The World-Wide-Web. XEROX PARC
XEROX's Palo Alto Research Center, site of much pioneering research in user
interface design and networking Yale Yale University Other etymologys such
as Unix and PDP-10 refer to technical cultures surrounding specific
operating systems, processors, or other environments. The fact that a term
is labelled with any one of theses does not necessarily mean its use is
confined to that culture. In particular, many terms labelled MIT and
Stanford are in quite general use. We have tried to give some indication of
the distribution of speakers in the usage notes; however, a number of
factors mentioned in the introduction conspire to make these indications
less definite than might be desirable. A few new definitions attached to
entries are marked [proposed]. These are usually generalizations suggested
by editors or Usenet respondents in the process of commenting on previous
definitions of those entries. These are not represented as established
jargon. Prev  Up  Next Chapter10.Pronunciation Guide Home Chapter12.
